resource access update (#127)
DavidXanatos/sandboxie-docs: Content/ReadIpcPath.md

# Read Ipc Path

_ReadIpcPath_ is a sandbox setting in [Sandboxie Ini](SandboxieIni.md) available since v1.0.16 / 5.55.16. It specifies path patterns for which Sandboxie will allow read access to unsandboxed processes or processes in other boxes. This lets sandboxed programs access resources and services provided by programs running outside the sandbox.

[Program Name Prefix](ProgramNamePrefix.md) may be specified.

> Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usage:
```

```
   .
   .
   .
   [DefaultBox]
   ReadIpcPath=$:program.exe
```

This example permits a program running inside the sandbox to have read access into the address space of a target process running outside the sandbox or processes in other boxes. The process name of the target process must match the name specified in the setting.

It is also possible to restore the old behavior entirely by specifying:
```
   .
   .
   .
   [DefaultBox]
   ReadIpcPath=$:*
```

> By default the only process whos memory can be read is explorer.exe many processes want that and explorer should not keep any secrets normally anyways. To block this you can use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the only process whose memory can be read is _explorer.exe_. Many processes require it and Windows File Explorer should not keep any secrets anyway. To block this, you can use:
```

> By default, the only process whose memory can be read is _explorer.exe_. Many processes require it and Windows File Explorer should not keep any secrets anyway. To block this, you can use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the only process whose memory can be read is _explorer.exe_. Many processes requires it and Windows File Explorer should not keep any secrets anyway. To block this, you can use:
```
